# How I hear sound

I confuse pitch and amplitude (volume) when I'm listening to sound. I
believe this caused me difficulty learning to speak properly (or close
enough that others could understand me), and continues to give me
trouble in many situations. For instance, I believe this makes busy
situations like cafeterias particularly anxiety-producing for me, makes
it hard for me to pick out conversations where there is background
noise, and makes learning other languages extremely difficult.  I
know others with processing disorders, but I've met very few that have
this pitch/amplitude confusion (but I'm interested in talking to
others).

I created this to demonstrate how I hear things and to hear (no pun
intended) from others who may have similar processing issues.

# Description of Files

Each of the three sound files, linked below, consists of three tones
quickly played one after another.  These tones have different pitches
and different amplitudes (volumes).

The processing oddity I experience is that when the amplitude (volume)
of the tone changes, I then have trouble picking out the relative pitch.

To see if this impacts you too, click on one of the files.  When you
listen to it, ideally just once, quickly try to determine which of the
three tones (first, second, or third) has the highest pitch.  If this is
easy for you (it is for most people), you probably have different
oddities than I have, but if it is difficult or frustrating, and you
aren't sure which tone is the highest pitch, you may have the same sound
oddities I have.

The answer key is also linked below.  Try listening to the tones first!

# Tones

 * [Tone set 1](a.wav) - [Answer](a.md)
 * [Tone set 2](b.wav) - [Answer](b.md)
 * [Tone set 3](c.wav) - [Answer](c.md)

# This is hard!

If this is hard for you to do (at least once you figure out the
instructions!), I'd love to hear from you - You can contact me at
[jmaslak@antelope.net](mailto:jmaslak@antelope.net)

I would love to get a group of us to document this in more detail,
because I think this is likely under-studied and under-recognized.

# Are you a researcher?

If you're a researcher, I'd also love to talk with you! You can contact
me at [jmaslak@antelope.net](mailto:jmaslak@antelope.net)

I'd particularly love to collaborate and design a scientifically valid
test for this particular processing difficulty.  I have a software
development background and have some thoughts on different aspects of
these tone sets that make this process easier or more difficult for
people like me, which could build a test that is more useful than just
"yes I have trouble" or "no I don't."

Likewise, if you're aware of research or instruments that already
measure this construct, I'd also love to talk to you. Thus far, I
haven't found any, but I admit it is not my field!
